# Usability Evaluation with Users
## DH 150 Assignment 2: Usability Testing by Vicki Truong

#### One paragraph explaining the purpose of UT, how & what you want to test especially based on the findings of heuristic evaluation. 
Usability testing, or UT, refers to the process of evaluating a product by having representative users test it out in order to improve the usability of a product. 
Usability assesses how easy user interfaces are to use, with some of its metrics being effectiveness, efficiency, satisfaction, learnability, and memorability. Thus, when one performs usability testing, the main goals are to identify any usability problems that may cause frustration, collect empirical data, and determine the participant's satisfaction with the product.

In this usability test, I seek to have a user test out the [Monterey Park Bruggemeyer Library](http://library.montereypark.ca.gov/search) website. 
The Monterey Park Bruggemeyer Library website is centered around its catalog, with additional categories at the header (my library, help topics, library, eBook, library calendar/events, Worldcat, and featured items list).
Often times, library websites are used to find books or visual resources, learn about library events, find the library's contact information, or to manage library accounts. 
From my heuristic evaluation, I felt that the catalog and help documentation aspects of the website could be improved for users and I would like to see how other users react to the interface. 
I have asked a user to complete three tasks on the library website: 1) finding a book using keyword (using filter features), 2) finding a book using subject and 3) finding library contact information. 
The usability test is conducted in a residence hall with a minimal setup of seating and a laptop but it is a quiet place. An introduction, informed consent, pre-test questions, 3 tasks, and post-test questions were given to the user and ease of use was measured. 

#### The link to your online survey (UT materials), share the survey with the instructor

The link to my online survey on Google Forms can be fine [here](https://forms.gle/ix6VQEpEE572QFjt9).

#### The link to your pilot UT video (e.g., youtube or google drive)

The pilot test video can be found [here](https://youtu.be/VVIqLFDeKEQ). It is only accessible through the link. Please let me know if there are any accessibility issues! 

#### One paragraph describing what you learned during the pilot test, what went well and what went not so well, focusing on how you want to improve your UT in the future.

During this pilot test, the test user was able to finish all three tasks. I tried to organize tasks 1 and 2 to compare the keyword and subject search features, and the test user finished the first two with relative ease, but had some trouble with the third. For task 1, my goal was to have the user modify the search by selecting the modify search button, but the user instead directly modified the link in the search bar. This achieved similar results, though the modify search option did not get tested. The user was asked to find the availability status of the book after clicking on a book title, but was unable to do so. On the search result page, it would say Circulation availability: 1 copy available at Adult Non-Fiction, but when the user clicked on the book title, under Status, it said "Check shelves" which is more ambiguous. Also, the user at first was not completely sure how to return to the home page but the user was able to navigate by clicking on the banner in the top left. My biggest blunder as a moderator was that I forgot to have the website page full screen; I thought that having a split screen would allow the user to switch between the google form and the website more easily. However, we ran into some issues for task three when finding the library contact information. I had trouble finding the contact information myself when I did the heuristic evaluation, so that is why I included it as a task on the form. The user did locate to the link the contact information was on, but since the screen was half the size it normally was, the contact information got pushed down a bit further rather than on the right side, so the user immediately dismissed the page. I then realized my mistake and had the user explore the website in full size but did not prompt anything else. The user later returned to the correct page and found the correct information. From this, I found it interesting the way the user navigated through the website and after the test, I mentally compared the user's experience to mine. I preferred to allow the user to interact with the google form to give them more autonomy. I was able to learn more about the usability testing process and experience it firsthand. In the future, I would hope to have a bigger screen or some way to have the full capabilites of the website on display while also having the tasks on the side so the user can readily reference them. Given more time, I woud also create more words in the production satisfaction card because I feel that there are more than 18 words to describe an experience. I hope to become more well spoken so that I can both clearly present the task and also have the user feel comfortable.  
